Rules per (http://www.d20radio.com/backerzone/d20Radio%20Pazaak%20Deck%20-%20by%20Ryan%20Dugas/Pazaak%20Rules.pdf)
Gameplay
Each set of pazaak involves the use of two different decks: the communal main
deck (or “table deck”, as it’s called in some areas of the galaxy), and the side deck.
The Main Deck
Standard galactic pazaak convention dictates that the Main
Deck (which is shared by both players during a match)
contain four copies of cards numbered 1-10.
The Side Deck
While in the days of the Old Republic each player provided his
own Side Deck of sanctioned cards, modern pazaak players
use a communal Side Deck with 10 mutually agreed upon
cards. Some establishments mandate a house-provided Side
Deck, while others allow nearly any Side Deck cards, as long as
both players agree to it. Side Deck cards, as we will see, are
used to modify a player’s total for the set, and can radically
change a game.
Starting a Match
After stakes have been determined, and a Side Deck assembled and agreed upon
by both players, both the Main Deck and Side Deck are shuffled thoroughly. The
Main Deck is set to the side of the play area, face-down, to be drawn from easily
by both players. From the Side Deck, 4 cards are then dealt to each player to form
their hand for the match. The remaining cards in the Side Deck are set aside,
face-down, for the remainder of the match. The incumbent player (or challenger)
usually defers the first turn of the first set to his opponent, with players
alternating the first turns of subsequent sets in the match.
Playing a Set
During a set, cards will be dealt and played into a tableau in front of each player,
with the goal of each player to reach a numerical value of no more than 20 in
their tableau. Each turn, the player is dealt a single card from the main deck,
after which they may choose to play a single card from their hand to modify their
total. At the end of each turn, the player must choose to CONTINUE or to STAND.
If a player elects to STAND, they may take no more turns during that set. If a
player elects to CONTINUE, they will be forced to take another subsequent turn, in
which another main deck card is dealt to their tableau, and they have another
chance to play a single card from their hand.
When both players have elected to STAND, the set is over, and the player with the
higher total value in his tableau (that does not go over 20) wins the set. If both
players have a tied value, the set is tied and does not count as a victory for either
player.
If, however, a player ends his turn with a total card value in his tableau higher
than 20, they have BUSTED, and immediately lose the set, regardless of their
opponent’s tableau value.
Alternate Rules
“Filling the Table”
Though rarely practiced in the core worlds, “Filling the Table” is a commonly
accepted rule in the outer rim. Should a player manage to fill his entire tableau
with 9 cards from the Main Deck without BUSTING, the player automatically wins
the set. (Be sure to know if this is a house rule before you sit down to play!)
“Trade Negotiations”
An almost universal rule in the CSA (but found few other places), “Trade
Negotiations” allows a player – once per set – to expose one of the cards from their
hand to their opponent. The opponent then has the option to take that card in
exchange for the player randomly drawing a new card from the opponent’s hand.
Main Deck Cards
Regardless of where you travel in the galaxy, the contents of a pazaak Main Deck
are always the same: 40 cards, numbered 1-10 (4 of each).
SideDeck Cards
Below are both the common and the unusual Side Deck cards found in different
parts of the galaxy. Remember, while both players must agree on the 10 cards used
in the Side Deck – most gaming establishments will provide a slim selection of
common cards to choose from.
Common Cards
+ Cards
- Cards
These cards simply add or subtract their
value from the player’s total.
+/- Cards (“Turn Cards”)
These powerful cards can either add or
subtract their value from the player’s
total. The player may choose which
when the card is played, turning the
card to represent either the + or the –
to his total.
In the days of the Old Republic, such
cards were very rare and valuable to
pazaak players.
Unusual Cards
These collections of unusual cards are
found throughout various parts of the
galaxy, and add new areas of strategy
for players who agree to having them
in their Side Deck.
Tiebreaker Cards
These cards function like normal + or –
cards (or even +/-), but have a unique
feature: if this is the last card played
by a player, and the set is tied, that
player will win the tie and the set.
Kessel 10
Subtracts 10 from the player’s total.
Flip Cards
These strange cards (popular with
Toydarian players) switch the +/- value
of specifically numbered Main Deck and
Side Deck cards for their player. A flip
card affects 2 numbers (1 & 2, 2 & 4, 3
& 6, or 4 & 8) when it is played. All +
cards (green Main Deck and blue Side
Deck cards) become – cards (red), and
all – cards (red) become + cards (blue).
The Ringer
Found almost exclusively in Hutt Space,
this card can be played as a +/- 1 or a
+/- 2 card.
A Bespin Gaming Casino
After a hard day at the pazaak tables…
Doublecard
This card doubles the value of the last
Main Deck (green) card the player
received when it is played.
The Martyr
Serious cutthroat players will often add
this to the Side Deck. It cannot be
played, and if drawn, simply serves to
waste space in a player’s hand.
The Crash Card
Played on top of one of your
opponent’s Side Deck cards, it treats
that card as having a value of 0.
Hyperslip
Also played on your opponent, this card
subtracts 1 from your opponent’s total.
Though common lore is that the Crash
Card and Hyperslip Card were created
by the Defel, they are currently very
popular Side Deck cards used by
Mandalorians and other mercenaries.

